# Meeting 2

**Place:** IEETA
**Date:** 8th of October 2025
**Theme:** Feedback on what was decided on meeting 1 and presentation of doubts.
**Participants:** José Bagagem, Gonçalo Almeida, Simão Tojal, João Barreira, Margarida Ribeiro e João Almeida

---

## Data Import Format

**Supported Formats**

Initially, only CSV files will be supported for data import (using pandas).
Support for Excel files (.xlsx) may be added in the future if necessary.

**Export Formats**

Data can be exported in .txt format.

## Sheduling Optimization Engine

**Restrictions and rules**

The sheduling engine must be highly costumizable, allowing the admin to set various restrictions and preferences.

- Specific windows for classes;
- Ability to create templates for time slots and apply them to different courses;
- Option to allow or avoid simultaneous classes;
- Flexibility to group or disperse classes according to needs;
- For Master's programs, all mandatory courses should be scheduled on the same day when possible.

**Adaptation to Constraints:**  
  - The schedule must take into account all available time globally;
  - The algorithm should be adaptable based on admin-defined constraints;
  - Some class groups may be imposed by the admin and not generated by the system;
  - Overlapping with externally imposed classes is allowed as long as students are not prevented from attending their mandatory classes;
 - The system must account for classes and groups managed by other departments.
  - Integration should be flexible to ensure students from outside DETI can attend their required classes.

## Authentication
The system will use the OpenID Connect protocol for authentication so there is no need to support for institutional authentication systems.

## Privacy and consent

No specific privacy or consent requirements for the collection and processing of personal data.

## QR code functionality

QR codes can display real-time data due to low user count. 

## User Personas and Roles

**Admin Role:**  
  - There will be an administrator responsible for maintaining the system and managing core data.

**Teachers:**  
  - Teachers are assumed to be perfect users (never absent).

**Students:**
 - Receive timely notifications about changes in their schedule or classroom.

## User Stories Feedback

| ID  | Status/Action               | Note/Modification                              |
|-----|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| a1  | Difficult to implement      | Should be divided into smaller parts           |
| a2  | Divide into two             | Add drag-and-drop and notification features    |
| a3  | Remove                      |                                                |
| a4  | Good                        |                                                |
| d1  | Good                        |                                                |
| d2  | Not written                 | Interesting, but not as previously conceived   |
| d3  | Modify                      | Teachers should be notified when their schedule is ready |
| d4  | Modify                      | Teachers can request a change of room if conditions are inadequate |
| al1  | Good                        |                                                |
| al2  | Remove                      |                                                |

## Architecture and Database

Our initial architecture wasn't really good so the professor suggested that we start from the database layer and build upwards. The initial database schema does not need to be 100% complete, the tables and views from it will inform the design of the middle-layer components.


**Three-dimensional Matrix for Scheduling:**  
  - Dimensions: Courses, Professors, Days.
  - **MVP Focus:**  
    - Management of rooms only.
    - Relationships between professors and courses, then distribution of clases (turmas).
    - Assignment of rooms, followed by scheduling time slots.

## TO DO:
- Main interface mockups (paper)
- Initial database schema
- Final prioritized list of user stories
